libv4l is a GPL-ed C wrapper library around the capture facility provided by
the Video4Linux (V4L) API. It offers a simplified API to capture frames from
video devices. Both V4L1 and V4L2 devices are supported. libv4l also provides
access to all V4L controls reported by the underlying V4L driver. This includes
the usual controls found on every video device such as brightness & contrast,
as well as private V4L controls which are device and driver-dependent, such as
'Save' & 'Restore' settings. A neat feature of libv4l is that it also tries to
detect the underlying driver, and create pseudo controls for driver-specific,
private ioctls. This provides a uniform way to access and control video
devices. That way, control of the video capture device is done seamlessly
through libv4l controls. A concrete example:
The PWC driver supports webcams with pan/tilt capabilities. Control of the pan
and tilt however, requires first checking with the driver if the attached device
supports these (done through driver-specific ioctls, which means you have to 
detect which driver the device is using first). If supported, pan/tilt control
is then done via driver-specific ioctls. libv4l will probe the driver.If it is
PWC, it will probe the device and if the device supports Pan/Tilt features,
libv4l will create V4L controls to provide access to Pan & tilt.

FEATURES:
liv4l allows:
- frame capture from V4L devices in a variety of palettes (YUV420, RGB24,...)
- access to V4L controls
- access to driver-private ioctls through "fake" V4L controls created by libv4l

REQUIREMENTS:
- a V4L compatible video source (capture card, webcam)

COMPILING:
- run "make" in the directory.

USAGE:
libv4l is a library and is meant to be linked to an application. However, two
test programs are shipped:
- 'test-capture', which runs a capture from a given video device at a given
  resolution. It then prints the frame rate. It can also dump raw captured 
  frames to files.
- 'list-caps' which lists information about a given video device.
To compile the test programs, run "make test".
The "example" directory contains light_cap, a lighweight application which 
captures frames and sends them out as a multipart JPEG stream suitable for
viewing in any standard-compliant web browser. See example/README for more
details.

DEBUGGING:
Edit the Makefile, uncomment the line #DEBUG line and recompile libv4l. Extra
output will be produced to allows troubleshooting.

ISSUES:
Feedback is is greatly appreciated, specially because libv4l has only been 
tested with a very limited number of webcams and capture cards.
Issues and queries can be emailed to djails@users.sf.net along with a
description of what went wrong and what hardware you run libv4l on. Also,
to facilitate troubleshooting, enable debugging (see DEBUGGING section above)
and run the following 3 commands (replace videoXX with the right device file):

make clean test
./list-caps /dev/videoXX > list_caps_output 2>&1
./test-capture /dev/videoXX > test_cap_output 2>&1

Attach the "list_caps_output" and "test_cap_output" files to your query.

