Video4Linux4Java (v4l4j) is a GPL'd java package providing a simple interface
to capture frames  from Video4Linux devices. It consists of:
- a v4l library (libvideo), which is a C wrapper library around the V4L API,
- a set of java classes that provide access to the libvideo API, and
- a JNI stub, which fills in the gap between JAVA and libvideo.


FEATURES:
- Captured frames handed out in a ByteBuffer object. Frames are handed in either
  in raw format or converted to JPEG, RGB24, BGR24, YUV420 or YVU420.
- Single frame or stream capture
- Access to all V4L video source controls, even those accessible
  only through private ioctls, which are exposed as (pseudo-) controls.
  See TestedHardware in the libvideo directory for a list of detected drivers
  and exported private ioctls


DOCUMENTATION:
The latest version of v4l4j and associated documentation (Howtos, API, ...) can
always be found at http://v4l4j.googlecode.com


QUICK START:
The following installs the dependencies, compiles v4l4j and runs a test 
application, assuming you are running Ubuntu or Debian:

sudo apt-get install openjdk-6-jdk libjpeg-dev build-essential ant
ant test-gui

If you want to use v4l4j from your own code, jump to the INSTALLING section.


REQUIREMENTS:
v4l4j requires the following:
- a supported V4L video source (webcam, capture card, tuner card).
- Sun JAVA JDK 1.6 or OpenJDK6 (it wont compile with earlier versions).
- the development files of libjpeg, as well as libjpeg itself
- standard build tools (make, gcc, ld) & headers (libc)
- Apache Ant


COMPILING:
To compile v4l4j, run "ant all" in the top-level directory. This will first 
compile the libvideo shared library and the JNI library libv4l4j.so. It will 
then compile the java classes and pack them in a JAR file. Both the JNI library
libv4l4j.so and the JAR file v4l4j.jar are copied in the top-level directory. 
libvideo is NOT copied in the top-level directory and remains in libvideo/ .


INSTALLING:
In order to use the v4l4j package from your Java application, it is recommended 
that you install both libraries (libvideo and the JNI library), as well as 
v4l4j's JAR file. This is done in 3 steps:
- Run "sudo ant install". This will copy libvideo's shared library in /usr/lib ,
  the JNI library libv4l4j.so in /usr/lib/jni and v4l4j's JAR file in 
  /usr/share/java. Any of these paths can be changed by modifying the right 
  property in build.properties .
 
- Make sure you run "sudo ldconfig" so libvideo's shared library is added to the
  cache.

- When running your application, pass the following arguments to the JVM:
  "-Djava.library.path=/usr/lib/jni -cp /usr/share/java/v4l4j.jar"
  (modify the above values if you have changed the default installation 
  directories).

TESTING:
Three example applications are shipped with v4l4j:
- The first one simply captures frames for 10 seconds and print the frame rate.
  Run it with "ant test-fps"
- The second one displays the video stream & video controls in a window. Run it
  with "ant test-gui".
- The last one displays information about the video device. Run it with 
  "ant deviceInfo"  

By default, tests will use /dev/video0 (assumed to be a webcam) as the video 
device, and capture resolution will be set to 640x480. You can change any of 
these settings by editing the values at the bottom of "build.properties",
or provide those values on the ant command line (-Dtest.device=..., to change
the device file, -Dtest.width=... the change the width, -Dtest.height=... for 
the height and so on). 


DEBUGGING:
First, if you have already installed v4l4j (with "sudo ant install") then you 
MUST uninstall it with "sudo ant uninstall", otherwise the previous jar file & 
libraries (without debug statements) will take precedence over the new ones. 
Then, compile v4l4j to produce extra debug output, useful to troubleshoot 
issues, with "ant clean all-debug". Install it with "sudo ant install". 


CONTACT:
Feedback is is greatly appreciated to expand the list of platforms and video
devices v4l4j has been successfully tested with. Feedback, issues and queries 
can be emailed to v4l4j@googlegroups.com.

