Video4Linux4Java (v4l4j) is a set of GPL'd-java classes that allow access to
Video4Linux2 (not V4L1 !!) devices. It consists of:
- a v4l2 library (libv4l2), which is a C wrapper library around the V4L2 API,
- a set of java classes that provide access to the libv4l2 API, and
- a JNI stub, which fills in the gap between JAVA and libv4l2.

FEATURES:
- Captured frames handed out as JPEG images
- Single frame or stream capture
- Access to all V4L2 controls
- v4l4j provides access to all V4L2 video source controls, even those accessible
  only through private ioctls. The following drivers are detected and their
  private ioctls are exported as (pseudo-) controls.

PWC (tested with version 10.0.13):
- support for Pan / Tilt features

REQUIREMENTS:
v4l4j requires the following:
- Sun JAVA JDK 1.6 (it wont compile with earlier versions)
- the development files of libjpeg, as well as libjpeg itself
- Apache Ant

COMPILING:
To compile the JNI library and java classes, run "ant all" in the top-level
directory. This will first compile libv4l2 and the JNI code, and then link both
of these to produce the JNI library libv4l4j. It will then compile the java 
classes and pack them in a JAR file. Both the JNI library libv4l4j.so and the
JAR file v4l4j.jar are copied in the top-level directory.

INSTALLING:
You must do two things:
First, make sure JNI library libv4l4j.so can be loaded by the JVM. This is done
by either:
- installing libv4l4j in the JRE lib directory. This is done by running
  "ant install-jnilib" as root in the top-level directory. It can be
  uninstalled with "ant uninstall-jnilib" as root later on.
- setting the shell variable LD_LIBRARY_PATH to point to the directory where
  libv4l4j.so resides before running your program. By default, libv4l4j.so
  is created in the top-level directory. For example:
  LD_LIBRARY_PATH=path/to/libv4l4j_dir java my.package.MyApp
  The same can be achieved by setting the java.library.path property using:
  "-Djava.library.path=path/to/libv4l4j_dir" when invoking the JVM.

Second, make sure v4l4j.jar is in your application's classpath.

TESTING:
you can either run the series of Junit tests or run the main method in the 
FrameGrabber class:
- to run the Junit tests, run "ant test-single"
- to run the au.edu.jcu.v4l4j.FrameGrabber class's main method, provide the
required 6 arguments in this order: the device file to test, the requested width,
the requested height, the capture standard (0 for webcam, see FrameGrabber
javadoc for the rest), the capture channel (0 for webcam), and the JPEG
compression factor (0-100). When ran, FrameGrabber.main will open the specified
device file, print all the available controls, try capture frames for 5 seconds
(by default). At the end, it will print the number of frames per second.
You can run these by invoking "java -jar v4l4j.jar" (with the correct 6
arguments), assuming you have installed the JNI library with "ant installjnilib"
Otherwise, you can use "java -Djava.library.path=. -jar v4l4j.jar"  (with the
correct 6 arguments).

DEBUGGING:
You can compile both the wrapper library libv4l2 with extra debug output:
uncomment the #DEBUG line in libv4l2/Makefile and recompile. 

CONTACT:
Queries and issues should be emailed to gilles.gigan@gmail.com

The latest stable version of v4l4j can be downloaded from the Subversion
repository at:
https://www.hpc.jcu.edu.au/projects/SAL/svn/v4l4j/tags/v4l4j

The latest snapshot of v4l4j can be downloaded from the Subversion
repository at:
https://www.hpc.jcu.edu.au/projects/SAL/svn/v4l4j/trunk


